CHAPTER 5. MANAGING LOCAL LINUX USERS AND GROUPS

	1. id: show information about the current logged in user
 
	2. ls -l: third column shows the user associated with the file

	3. ps: to view process information

	4. ps au:    a: to view all process with a terminal
               	 u: user associated with a process

	5. Groups have a name and number (GID)
		a. Local groups defined in: /etc/group
		b. Every user has exactly one primary group
		c. GID number of group: third field of etc/passwd

	6. su: switch the current user to any other user

	7. su <username>: switch to that particular user

	8. su -: default changes to root account

	9. For root account all privileges are granted

	10.  sudo: allows a user to be permitted to run a command as root
 	     sudo requires to enter their own password

	11. echo $HOME: variables that specify the home directory
	12. echo $PATH: locations searched for executable files

	13. useradd username: create users

	14. Modify existing user: usermod –help
		a. -c: --comment COMMENT: Add a value to GECOS files 
		b. -g: --gid GROUP: Specify primary group for user account
		c. -G: --groups GROUPS: Specify a list of supplementary groups for user
		d. -a: --append: Used with -G, append user to supplementary groups without removing from other groups
		e. -d: --home HOME_DIR: Specify new home directory
		f. -m: --move-home: move users home directory to a new location
		g. -s: --shell SHELL: Specify a new login shell
		h. -L: --lock: lock a user account
		i. -u: --unlock: Unlock a user account

	15. userdel username: Removes user but leaves the home directory
	    userdel -r username: Removes the user and users home directory
	    If deleted without -r, new user will be assigned with the existing 

	16. passwd username: set users initial password or change that user’s password

	17. UID Ranges
		a. UID 0: Superuser account, root
		b. UID 1-200: System users assigned statically to system processes by red hat
		c. UID 201-999: System users used by system processes that do not own files on the file system, typically assigned when software needs them installed
		d. UID 1000+: Assignment to regular users

	18. Managing local group accounts
		a. groupadd groupname: creates new group
		b. sudo groupadd -g [GID] groupname: Specify a GID
		c. sudo groupadd -r groupname: Create a system group using a GID from the range of valid system GID 
		   number listed in /etc/login.defs
	d. sudo groupmod -n name newname: Modify group name to new name
	e. sudo groupmod -g 6000 groupname: Specify new GID to existing group
	f. sudo groupdel groupname: remove a specific group
	g. usermod -g groupname: change a user’s primary group
	h. sudo usermod -aG groupname username: Add a user to a supplementary group
	   “-a” without it, user would be removed from all other supplementary groups 

	19. Managing user passwords
		a. Three pieces of information stored in a modern password hash:
			i. Type of hash
				“1” indicates an MD5 hash
				“6” appears when a SHA -512 hash is used
			ii. Salt used to encrypt the hash
				Salt + unencrypted password= encrypted password
			iii. Encrypted hash
		b. /etc/shadow format:
			Name, passwd, last change, min age, max age, warning, inactive, expire, blank
		c. Password Aging:
			i. -d: last change date 
			ii. -m: minimum days
			iii. -M: maximum days
			iv. -W: Warning days
			v. -I: Inactive days
			vi. chage -m -M -I username
			vii. chage -d 0 username: force password update on next login
			viii. chage -l username: list username’s current settings
			ix. chage -E YYYY-MM-DD: expire account on a specific day
			x. date -d “+45 days”: calculate date in future
			xi. sudo usermod -L shreya: Lock an account Shreya
			xii. sudo usermod -U Shreya: Unlock the account
			for use such as when a user has left the company the account is locked


